README.md, before:

# WebR for JupyterLite

This repository contains a JupyterLite kernel for webR. When the kernel is
started, the webR WebAssembly binaries are downloaded from CDN and loaded into
the page.

## WebR for JupyterLite Development Setup

The following is an example set of instructions for Unix-like environments such
as running under Linux or macOS.

First, setup a fresh version of JupyterLite in a new virtual environment:

* Create a new directory for JupyterLite (e.g. `jupyter`) and `cd` into it in a
  terminal.
* Create a new virtual env, `python -m venv jupyterlite-venv`
* Activate it, `. ./jupyterlite-venv/bin/activate`
* Install JupyterLite, `pip install jupyterlab jupyterlite jupyter_packaging`

To be able to use the webR kernel within JupyterLite it must be served with
certain security-related HTTP headers, so that it is is cross-origin isolated.
By setting these headers the webR `SharedArrayBuffer` based communication
channel can be used.

If you are using an external web server, configure the web server to serve
JupyterLite with the HTTP following headers set,

```
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
```

If you are planning to use the built in JupyterLite server, create the file
`config.json` with the following contents, which sets up the local development
server to include the required HTTP headers.

```
{
  "LiteBuildConfig": {
    "extra_http_headers": {
      "Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy": "same-origin",
      "Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy": "require-corp"
    }
  }
}
```

Next, clone the webR JupyterLite kernel repository, change directory into it,
and build the kernel,
 * `git clone [...]`
 * `cd jupyterlite-webr-kernel`
 * `npm install`
 * `yarn build`
 * `python setup.py sdist`

Return to the previous directory, install the webR kernel, and build
JupyterLite,

 * `cd -`
 * `pip install jupyterlite-webr-kernel/dist/jupyterlite-webr-*.tar.gz`
 * `jupyter lite clean`
 * `jupyter lite build --config=config.json`

The resulting JupyterLite website is built in the output directory, `_output`.

If you are using the built in server, be sure to start the server with the
`--config` argument. For example,

* `jupyter lite serve --config=config.json --port 8888`

and then visit `http://127.0.0.1:8888` in a browser to load JupyterLite.

Commit message:

Add limitations section to README.md

README.md, after:

# WebR for JupyterLite

This repository contains a JupyterLite kernel for webR. When the kernel is
started, the webR WebAssembly binaries are downloaded from CDN and loaded into
the page.

## Limitations

### Virtual File System Storage

Due to limitations in the way the webR worker thread is implemented, the
persistent JupyterLite file storage and the Emscripten VFS used by webR are not
accessible to one another. At the time of writing the easiest way to import
data into a webR notebook is probably using functions such as `read.csv()` with
a URL.

### Interruption

Whilst webR supports interrupting long running computations, at the time of
writing interrupting cell execution with JupyterLite is not yet implemented. An
infinite looping cell can only be recovered by restarting the kernel.

## WebR for JupyterLite Development Setup

The following is an example set of instructions for Unix-like environments such
as running under Linux or macOS.

First, setup a fresh version of JupyterLite in a new virtual environment:

* Create a new directory for JupyterLite (e.g. `jupyter`) and `cd` into it in a
  terminal.
* Create a new virtual env, `python -m venv jupyterlite-venv`
* Activate it, `. ./jupyterlite-venv/bin/activate`
* Install JupyterLite, `pip install jupyterlab jupyterlite jupyter_packaging`

To be able to use the webR kernel within JupyterLite it must be served with
certain security-related HTTP headers, so that it is is cross-origin isolated.
By setting these headers the webR `SharedArrayBuffer` based communication
channel can be used.

If you are using an external web server, configure the web server to serve
JupyterLite with the HTTP following headers set,

```
Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy: same-origin
Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy: require-corp
```

If you are planning to use the built in JupyterLite server, create the file
`config.json` with the following contents, which sets up the local development
server to include the required HTTP headers.

```
{
  "LiteBuildConfig": {
    "extra_http_headers": {
      "Cross-Origin-Opener-Policy": "same-origin",
      "Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy": "require-corp"
    }
  }
}
```

Next, clone the webR JupyterLite kernel repository, change directory into it,
and build the kernel,
 * `git clone [...]`
 * `cd jupyterlite-webr-kernel`
 * `npm install`
 * `yarn build`
 * `python setup.py sdist`

Return to the previous directory, install the webR kernel, and build
JupyterLite,

 * `cd -`
 * `pip install jupyterlite-webr-kernel/dist/jupyterlite-webr-*.tar.gz`
 * `jupyter lite clean`
 * `jupyter lite build --config=config.json`

The resulting JupyterLite website is built in the output directory, `_output`.

If you are using the built in server, be sure to start the server with the
`--config` argument. For example,

* `jupyter lite serve --config=config.json --port 8888`

and then visit `http://127.0.0.1:8888` in a browser to load JupyterLite.
